---
layout: post
title: "The Dividend Nerd on FIRE"
date: 2018-06-05 09:44:10 +0200
categories: blog fire
---
`The Dividend Nerd ON FIRE`

This is the beginning of my journey to become FIRE. A concrete term for FIRE is: *financial independence is when you have 25x your annual expenses.* But how does The Dividend Nerd define FIRE? That ain't so simple, since there are dozens of definitions that describe FIRE for a specific context, or keep it vaguely. It's not my intention to keep it vague, however, I'm really not sure what I want to aim for. At this moment, I just wanna be financial indepent and retire early.

>*At this moment, I just wanna be financial indepent and retire early.*

I've been interested in global economics, social theory ever since I've started working and earning some money and wasn't dependent on my student allowance, a small student loan and ofcourse my parents where I could always go back to when things hit the fan,both personally and financially. Thanks mom, dad :)
Reading books, blogs, listening to podcasts and interviews, talking with friends, colleagues. I've found money, the concept of it, really interested. Especially the whole system that has been built around it. The way we spend money, the way we view money, the way we disguise money and in the same way are attracted by it. Money has this weird effect on people, on me, on you. 

So that's when I started thinking, I want to have as little as possible to do with money. I just want to have the money and do things I love to do. Who needs a ocean full of money? Not me, I just want to have enough to not ever think about money. OK, that's actually not what I want, but you get what I mean. I want to be able to pay the bills, drive wherever I want, buy what I need, do what I like, that shouldn't be that hard, right?

That is true. It isn't that hard, however, you should know where to start and what to do. After those years grinding and accumulating knowledge, I started pursuing this idea in late 2016. Then I wasn't so focused on FIRE, it was about building up wealth. It's not until early 2017 I've came across FIRE, financial independent, retired early. It was exactly what I was looking for.

Back to FIRE definitions, as you can tell I haven't said anything about working, I just said I wanted to do those things. However I do have some thoughts about this, it's not about `not working`, it's about the idea of not ever having to work and still do the things I like.

>It's not about not working, it's about the idea of not ever having to work and still do the things I like.

That is the end goal. **"Just FIRE"**

And that is what is becoming a Dividend Nerd about.

In my [Investment Strategy](), the [2017]() and [2018]() and strategy updates I write about how I think I'll achieve this. In my monthly screening posts I lay down how, what and when I'm adding and removing stocks to my portfolio.


### **The Market**

For the record, I am not the intelligent investor, with a keen eye for algorithms and analyzing all stocks all day. I've read enough and experienced (with crypto) how time-consuming and stress inducing that can be. 

I don't intend to beat the market, I intend to use the market in my advantage. Structural beating the market is for the that special few. The lion share of all investors won't beat the market, they get lucky once in a while, sure. But I believe getting market results on average, over a long period, is realistic. That's what we're aiming for.

Since the market is volatile, meaning it has it's ups and downs, we need to use that to our advantage. That means I'll spread out my investments over the year. This is especially true for my monthly share of ETFs, a little less for the dividend stocks. For high yield, low payout stocks I'm always try to time the buy. But really I don't care about price that much, I just want to buy an undervalued stock. Even though both will be fine as long I'm sticking to the fundamentals of high yield, low payout and steady dividend growth perspective. 

>But really I don't care about price that much, I just want to buy an undervalued stock. 

So for the ETFs this means that we'll buy high and low, eventually regressing to the mean over a period of time. Meaning an average return for the market will be achieved at the time. 

For dividend stocks, it's about timing, but pre-requirements have to be met. More on that topic later. For now, it's been fun writing this down.
 
Later.

**T**
